The White movement also known as the Whites was a PYTHON PYTHON of anticommunist forces that fought 
the communist Bolsheviks also known as the Reds in the Russian Civil War ‚Ä and that to a PYTHON 
PYTHON continued PYTHON as PYTHON PYTHON of PYTHON both outside and within Russian PYTHON in 
Siberia until PYTHON World War II ‚Ä The movements military arm was the White Army also known as 
the White Guard or White Guardsmen During the Russian Civil War the White movement functioned as a 
bigtent political movement representing an array of political opinions in Russia united in their 
opposition to the communist Bolsheviks‚Äfrom the republicanminded liberals and Kerenskyite 
socialdemocrats on the left through monarchists and supporters of a united multinational Russia to 
the ultranationalist Black Hundreds on the right Following the military defeat of the Whites 
remnants and continuations of the movement remained in several organizations some of which only had 
narrow support enduring within the wider White √migr√ overseas community until after the fall of 
the European communist states in the Eastern European Revolutions of  and the subsequent 
dissolution of the Soviet Union in ‚Ä This communityinexile of anticommunists often divided into 
liberal and the more conservative segments with some still hoping for the restoration of the 
Romanov dynasty Two claimants to the empty throne emerged during the Civil War Grand Duke Kirill 
Vladimirovich of Russia and Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich of Russia Structure and ideology In the 
Russian context after  White had three main connotations Political contradistinction to the Reds 
whose revolutionary Red Army supported the Bolshevik government Historical reference to absolute 
monarchy specifically recalling Russias first Tsar Ivan III reigned ‚Ä at a period when some styled 
the ruler of Muscovy Albus Rex the White King The white uniforms of Imperial Russia worn by some 
White Army soldiers Ideology Female White officers in late  Above all the White movement emerged as 
opponents of the Red Army The White Army had the stated aim to keep law and order in Russia as the 
Tsars army before the civil war and the revolution of Russia They worked to remove Soviet 
organizations and functionaries in Whitecontrolled territory Overall the White Army was 
nationalistic and rejected ethnic particularism and separatism The White Army generally believed in 
a united multinational Russia and opposed separatists who wanted to create nationstates British 
parliamentary influential leader Winston Churchill ‚Ä personally warned General Anton Denikin ‚Ä 
formerly of the Imperial Army and later a major White military leader whose forces effected pogroms 
and persecutions against the Jews My task in winning support in Parliament for the Russian 
Nationalist cause will be infinitely harder if wellauthenticated complaints continue to be received 
from Jews in the zone of the Volunteer Armies Coat of Arms of the Kolchak government Many of the 
White leaders accepted autocracy while remaining suspicious of politics which they characterized as 
consisting of speeches elections and party activitiescitation needed Aside from being antiBolshevik 
and antiCommunist and patriotic the Whites had no set ideology or main leader The White Armies did 
acknowledge a single provisional head of state in a Supreme Governor of Russia in a Provisional 
AllRussian Government but this post was prominent only under the leadership in the war campaigns 
during ‚Ä of Admiral Alexander Kolchak formerly of the previous Russian Imperial Navy The movement 
had no set foreign policy Whites differed on policies toward the German Empire in its extended 
occupation of western Russia the Baltic states Poland and the Ukraine on the Eastern Front in the 
closing days of the World War debating whether or not to ally with it The Whites wanted to keep 
from alienating any potential supporters and allies and thus saw an exclusively monarchist position 
as a detriment to their cause and recruitment Whitemovement leaders such as Anton Denikin advocated 
for Russians to create their own government claiming the military could not decide in Russians 
steads Admiral Alexander Kolchak succeeded in creating a temporary wartime government in Omsk 
acknowledged by most other White leaders only for it to fall with the loss of his armies Some 
warlords who were aligned with the White movement such as Grigory Semyonov and Roman Ungern von 
Sternberg did not acknowledge any authority but their own Consequently the White movement had no 
unifying political convictions as members could be monarchists republicans rightists or Kadets 
Among White Army leaders neither General Lavr Kornilov nor General Anton Denikin were monarchists 
yet General Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel was a monarchist willing to soldier for a republican Russian 
government Moreover other political parties supported the antiBolshevik White Army among them the 
SocialistRevolutionary Party and others who opposed Lenins Bolshevik October Revolution of  
Depending on the time and place those White Army supporters might also exchange rightwing 
allegiance for allegiance to the Red Army Unlike the Bolsheviks the White Armies did not share a 
single ideology methodology or political goal They were led by conservative generals with different 
agendas and methods and for the most part they operated quite independently of each other with 
little coordination or cohesion The composition and command structure of White armies also varied 
some containing hardened veterans of World War I others more recent volunteers These differences 
and divisions along with their inability to offer an alternative government and win popular support 
prevented the White armies from winning the Civil War Structure White Army See also Volunteer Army 
Siberian Army and West Russian Volunteer Army Why arent you in the army Volunteer Army recruiting 
poster during the Russian Civil War Kornilovs Shock Detachment th Army later became the Volunteer 
Armys elite Shock Regiment The Volunteer Army in South Russia became the most prominent and the 
largest of the various and disparate White forces Starting off as a small and wellorganized 
military in January  the Volunteer Army soon grew The Kuban Cossacks joined the White Army and 
conscription of both peasants and Cossacks began In late February   soldiers under the command of 
General Aleksei Kaledin were forced to retreat from RostovonDon due to the advance of the Red Army 
In what became known as the Ice March they traveled to Kuban in order to unite with the Kuban 
Cossacks most of whom did not support the Volunteer Army In March  men under the command of General 
Viktor Pokrovsky joined the Volunteer Army increasing its membership to  and by June to  In  the 
Don Cossacks joined the Army In that year between May and October the Volunteer Army grew from  to  
soldiers and was better supplied than its Red counterpart The White Armys rankandfile comprised 
active antiBolsheviks such as Cossacks nobles and peasants as conscripts and as volunteers The 
White movement had access to various naval forces both seagoing and riverine especially the Black 
Sea Fleet Aerial forces available to the Whites included the SlavoBritish Aviation Corps SBAC The 
Russian ace Alexander Kazakov operated within this unit Administration The White movements leaders 
and first members came mainly from the ranks of military officers Many came from outside the 
nobility such as generals Mikhail Alekseev and Anton Denikin who originated in serf families or 
General Lavr Kornilov a Cossack The White generals never mastered administration they often 
utilized prerevolutionary functionaries or military officers with monarchististic inclinations for 
administering Whitecontrolled regions The White Armies were often lawless and disordered Also 
Whitecontrolled territories had multiple different and varying currencies with unstable 
exchangerates The chief currency the Volunteer Armys ruble had no gold backing Theatres of 
operation Russian Civil War in the west The Whites and the Reds fought the Russian Civil War from 
November  until  and isolated battles continued in the Far East until  The White Army‚Äaided by the 
Allied forces Triple Entente from countries such as Japan the United Kingdom France Italy and the 
United States and sometimes the Central Powers forces such as Germany and AustriaHungary‚Äfought in 
Siberia Ukraine and the Crimea They were defeated by the Red Army due to military and ideological 
disunity as well as the determination and increasing unity of the Red Army The White Army operated 
in three main theatres Southern front Main article Southern Front of the Russian Civil War In the 
summer of  Denikins troops captured Kharkov White organising in the South started on  November  Old 
Style under General Mikhail Alekseev ‚Ä In December  General Lavr Kornilov took over the military 
command of the newly named Volunteer Army until his death in April  after which General Anton 
Denikin took over becoming head of the Armed Forces of the South of Russia in January  The Southern 
Front featured massivescale operations and posed the most dangerous threat to the Bolshevik 
Government At first it depended entirely upon volunteers in Russia proper mostly the Cossacks among 
the first to oppose the Bolshevik Government On  June  the Volunteer Army ‚Ä men began its socalled 
Second Kuban Campaign with support from Pyotr Krasnov By September the Volunteer Army comprised  to 
 members thanks to mobilization of the Kuban Cossacks gathered in the North Caucasus Thus the 
Volunteer Army took the name of the Caucasus Volunteer Army On  January  the Volunteer Army under 
Denikin oversaw the defeat of the th Soviet Army and then captured the North Caucasus region After 
capturing the Donbass Tsaritsyn and Kharkov in June Denikins forces launched an attack towards 
Moscow on  July NS Plans envisaged  fighters under the command of General Vladimir MayMayevsky 
storming the city After General Denikins attack upon Moscow failed in  the Armed Forces of the 
South of Russia retreated On  and  March  the remnants of the Volunteer Army evacuated from 
Novorossiysk to the Crimea where they merged with the army of Pyotr Wrangel Eastern Siberian front 
Main articles Eastern Front of the Russian Civil War and White movement in Transbaikal The Eastern 
Front started in spring  as a secret movement among army officers and rightwing socialist forces In 
that front they launched an attack in collaboration with the Czechoslovak Legions who were then 
stranded in Siberia by the Bolshevik Government who had barred them from leaving Russia and with 
the Japanese who also intervened to help the Whites in the east Admiral Alexander Kolchak headed 
the eastern White counterrevolutionary army and a provisional Russian government Despite some 
significant success in  the Whites were defeated being forced back to Far Eastern Russia where they 
continued fighting until October  When the Japanese withdrew the Soviet army of the Far Eastern 
Republic retook the territory The Civil War was officially declared over at this point although 
Anatoly Pepelyayev still controlled the AyanoMaysky District at that time Pepelyayevs Yakut revolt 
which concluded on  June  represented the last military action in Russia by a White Army It ended 
with the defeat of the final anticommunist enclave in the country signalling the end of all 
military hostilities relating to the Russian Civil War Northern and Northwestern fronts Main 
article North Russia Intervention Headed by Nikolai Yudenich Evgeni Miller and Anatoly Lieven the 
White forces in the North demonstrated less coordination than General Denikins Army of Southern 
Russia The Northwestern Army allied itself with Estonia while Lievens West Russian Volunteer Army 
sided with the Baltic nobility Adventurers led by Pavel BermondtAvalov and Stanis≈aw 
Bu≈akBa≈achowicz played a role as well The most notable operation on this front Operation White 
Sword saw an unsuccessful advance towards the Russian capital of Petrograd in the autumn of  
PostCivil War The defeated antiBolshevik Russians went into exile congregating in Belgrade Berlin 
Paris Harbin Istanbul and Shanghai They established military and cultural networks that lasted 
through World War II ‚Ä eg the Russian community in Harbin and the Russian community in Shanghai 
Afterward the White Russians antiCommunist activists established a home base in the United States 
to which numerous refugees emigrated Moreover in the s and the s the White Movement established 
organisations outside Russia which were meant to depose the Soviet Government with guerrilla 
warfare eg the Russian AllMilitary Union the Brotherhood of Russian Truth and the National Alliance 
of Russian Solidarists a farright anticommunist organization founded in  by a group of young White 
emigres in Belgrade Yugoslavia Some White √migr√s adopted proSoviet sympathies and were termed 
Soviet patriots These people formed organizations such as the Mladorossi the Eurasianists and the 
Smenovekhovtsy A Russian cadet corps was established to prepare the next generation of 
antiCommunists for the spring campaign‚Äa hopeful term denoting a renewed military campaign to 
reconquer Russia from the Soviet Government In any event many cadets volunteered to fight for the 
Russian Corps during the Second World War when some White Russians participated in the Russian 
Liberation Movement After the war active antiSoviet combat was almost exclusively continued by the 
National Alliance of Russian Solidarists Other organizations either dissolved or began 
concentrating exclusively on selfpreservation andor educating the youth Various youth organizations 
such as the Russian ScoutsinExteris promoted providing children with a background in preSoviet 
Russian culture and heritage Some supported Zog I of Albania during the s and a few independently 
served with the Nationalists during the Spanish Civil War White Russians also served alongside the 
Soviet Red Army during the Soviet invasion of Xinjiang and the Islamic rebellion in Xinjiang in  
Prominent people Alexander Kolchak decorating his troops in Siberia The Government of South Russia 
created by Pyotr Wrangel in Sevastopol Crimea in April  Sergei Voitsekhovskii seated center 
MajorGeneral in the White movement and later Czechoslovak Army general Mikhail Alekseyev Vladimir 
Antonov Nicholas Savich Bakulin Pavel BermondtAvalov Stanis≈aw Bu≈akBa≈achowicz Anton Denikin 
Mikhail Diterikhs Mikhail Drozdovsky Alexander Dutov Dmitrii FedotoffWhite Ivan Ilyin Nikolay 
Iudovich Ivanov Alexey Kaledin Vladimir Kappel Alexander Kolchak Lavr Kornilov Pyotr Krasnov 
Mikhail Kvetsinsky Alexander Kutepov Anatoly Lieven Konstantin Mamontov Sergey Markov Vladimir 
MayMayevsky Evgeny Miller Konstantin Petrovich Nechaev Viktor Pokrovsky Leonid Punin Aleksandr 
Rodzyanko Grigory Semyonov Andrei Shkuro Roman von UngernSternberg Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel 
Sergei Wojciechowski Nikolai Yudenich Related movements After the February Revolution in western 
Russia Finland Estonia Latvia and Lithuania declared themselves independent but they had 
substantial Communist or Russian military presence Civil wars followed wherein the antiCommunist 
side may be referred to as White Armies eg the White Guardled partially conscripted army in Finland 
valkoinen armeija However since they were nationalists their aims were substantially different from 
the Russian White Army proper for instance Russian White generals never supported Finnish 
independence The defeat of the Russian White Army made the point moot in this dispute The countries 
remained independent and governed by nonCommunist governments 